
README
======

This project is still in development and is not ready for production
or even test usage.

If you are interested in helping the project, please fork the project
and/or send an email to EbXza@yahoo.com


What this project does
----------------------

This project creates a client/server model where only the client
decides on what information is accessed.

As the HTTP client/server model democratised publishing of
information, so this project's client/server model democratises the
access and sorting of information.

To read about the bottom-up design goals of the project, see:
https://github.com/manifestswitch/manifestswitch/blob/master/design-logic.txt


Why do this
-----------

The key issue is one of trust.

The internet has significantly reduced the difficulty of most people
to read published information.

One key benefit is that most people no longer have a necessity to
place as much trust in a small number of organisations such as
newspapers and TV news programs to perform this publishing function.

Contemporary evidence of politically aligned news blackouts and
character smearing indicates that it is a good thing we no longer have
to trust such organisations, but now do so optionally, on our own
terms.

But for those that choose other ways to sort and aggregate
information, an analagous problem exists, only this time in the trust
of other users/posters/voters.

This has lead to a situation where military and PR organisations are
able to have an effect on the access and sorting of information for
consumption by others.

They do so via the trust we place in the websites we use for these
functions. The websites that best allow us to counter this problem do
so by leveraging a network of trusted individuals.

Unfortunately, these websites also tend to suffer most from the
"network effect", which limits their number. This makes them
vulnerable to unwanted influence, censorship, and surveillance.

This project creates a system of fully decentralised storage, access,
and finally sorting of information via trust models.

Having this system is in place and widespread usage will allow
information to be truly free.


Project name
------------

In generating a project name, I started picking words randomly from a
dictionary file. The first was "switch", the second was "manifestly",
and the third was "operation's".

From this I settled on the projct name "Manifest Switch". While
"Operation Manifest Switch" has some ring to it, it's slightly
misleading, so I've left that for a later date.


Plug
----

If your organisation would like to donate a subsistence wage for me to
research, develop and manage this project full time, please get in
touch :)
